Factory Expansion Piotr Bruzda February 4, 2026 This is an unreleased version built on GitHub from commit 8f8eedf. This is a community-driven project, which has a GitHub repository. Everyone is welcome to contribute, make changes, and x errors. If you simply want to leave feedback, please do so in the original BoardGameGeek thread.  In the heart of Jadame, the Factory rises as a beacon of progress amidst the desolation. Born from the exodus of Hal ings and refugees eeing the Kreegan invasion of Eeofol, these innovators have forged a new future in Burton, igniting a wave of Factory towns across Terra Nova. Here, mercenaries and arti cers unite, commanding tamed exotic beasts and mechanical marvels in the Wasteland. Armed with guns and amethrowers, they stand ready to defend their realm. The Factory buzzes with anticipation, eager for bold adventurers to step forth. Will you embrace the challenge and harness the technological might of the Factory to etch your legend into the annals of history? In this expansion for Heroes of Might and Magic III: The Board Game, you will discover a host of new features, including Quests, a new faction, a new scenario, a few optional rules for the Core Game, as well as a dedicated campaign.  Contents Components ................................... 4 New Elements ................................ 5 Map Locations ............................... 7 Factory Campaign......................... 9 1. World on Fire .................. 9 2. Beyond the Horizon ......... 11 Credits............................................. 13  3  COMPONENTS This fan-made expansion is designed for self-printing and includes nearly all necessary components for gameplay. However, certain elements, such as additional statistic cards, morale tokens, gold tokens, building material tokens, and valuable tokens, are not included. Players using the Factory faction must source these components from other game expansions. Printable Components  Necessary Replacements  7 × Map Tiles:  2 × Hero Miniatures  1 × Starting Tile  8 × Unit Miniatures  3 × Far Tiles  20 × Orange Acrylic Cubes  2 × Near Tiles  Borrow from Other Expansions:  1 × Center Tile 1 × Town Board  Morale Token  1 × Mission Book  Building Material Tokens  3 × Hero Cards (double-sided)  Valuable Tokens  8 × Unit Cards  Gold Tokens  7 × Town Building Tiles  Statistic Cards  8 × Neutral Unit Cards  Black Acrylic Cubes  18 × Specialty Cards ? × Astrologers Proclaim Cards ? × Spell Cards ? × Ability Cards 1 × Artifact Card 4 × Mark Tokens 1 × Build Token 1 × Population Token 1 × Spell Book Token  4  NEW ELEMENTS Quests The Factory expansion introduces “Quests cards” , which provide players with additional objectives to complete during the game. Shu e the Quest deck and place it face down near the game board. Then, draw the top card and place it face up to create the discard pile.  1  2  3 4  Quest 1. Name  3. Requirement  2. Flavour text  4. Reward  Structure of a Quest Card Each Quest card consists of two sections: Requirement and Reward. There are two main types of Quests which di er signi cantly in the Requirement section: Non-Counter Quests – These require a speci c action to be performed (such as discarding cards or using abilities) or have a condition that must be met at a certain point in the game. The player may choose when to complete the Quest if the condition is met multiple times.  5  Map Locations  Counter Quests – These require actocumulating a certain number of kens before they can be completed. When a player meets the condition to gain , they place a black cube on their Quest card. A Counter Quest can be completed at any time once it has at least the required number of tokens.  In Factory Expansion, you will nd more tiles with new locations to discover. For the complete list of the locations, go to All Map Locations.  Mark Tokens  Once Quest is completed, the player immediately resolves the Reward e ect and the card is removed from the game.  Mark tokens are indicators placed on enemy units and are applied by units or abilities, enhancing strategic options during gameplay.  Acquiring and Managing Quests When a player gains a Quest, they place it face up next to their Hero or Town board. A player may only have one active Quest at a time. If a player gains a new Quest while already having an active one, they must discard the current Quest before accepting the new one.  These tokens remain in play for the duration of the Combat and signify that the marked units are being targeted. The speci c effects of Mark tokens are detailed on the relevant cards, explaining how they in uence the marked units. Each unit can only have one Mark token applied to it.  Quests can be obtained from Seer’s Hut locations, allowing a player to Search(2) Quests. Seer’s Hut functions similarly to a Star Axis, meaning each player may use it only once. Quests can also be acquired through new Astrologer e ects and Event cards. Just like other decks, Search(X) allows a player to take the top card from the discard pile. By incorporating Quests into their strategy, players can gain powerful rewards that may turn the tide of the game.  Seer’s Hut  6  MAP LOCATIONS Town  Settlement  Category: Flaggable This is a player’s starting eld. If a player captures a Town, they gain a bonus depending on the scenario.  Category: Flaggable When you Flag a Settlement, you may select your reward from a number of bonuses. If you capture a Settlement that has not been previously owned by any player, you gain an extra bonus (see page 25, “Settlements” in the Core Rulebook).  Derrick  Prospector  Category: Visitable . For the purpose of timed events, Gain 3 treat Derrick as a Water Wheel.  Category: Visitable Gain 1 . For the purpose of timed events, treat Prospector as a Windmill.  Warlock’s Lab  Grave  Category: Visitable Remove 1 card from your hand to gain 1  Category: Visitable 1 to Search(2) You may  .  7  and gain  .  Trailblazer  Watering Hole  Category: Revisitable Gain 1 . It lasts for only one Turn.  Category: Revisitable Immediately end your turn upon landing on this tile, next turn gain 1 . It lasts for only one Turn.  Airship Yard  Category: Revisitable 3 to gain 2 . During this You may turn, your Hero can move through blocked elds (but cannot end their movement there).  8  FA C T O R Y C A M PA I G N - F O R G E D I N F I R E  1. WORLD ON FIRE SCENARIO LENGTH  Y × Far (II–III) Map Tile  This Scenario plays out over ... Rounds.  Z × Near (IV–V) Map Tile  PLAYER SETUP  HEROES PLACEMENT  Faction: Factory  ... describe how your and enemy Heroes will be placed ...  Faction Hero: Henrietta Starting Resources: X Starting Income: A  ,Y ,B  ,Z  VICTORY CONDITIONS  ,C  ...  Starting Units: A Few  ...  DEFEAT CONDITIONS  A Pack  ...  ...  TIMED EVENTS Town Buildings:  2nd Round:  Dwelling...  ...  Bonus: Choose one of the following options:  ...  ...  AI HERO SETUP  ADDITIONAL RULES  Faction: ...  During this “... Faction ...” Campaign Scenario, the following rules apply:  Enemy Army: ...  ...  Enemy Deck: ... Enemy Spell Deck: ... Enemy Skills: ... Special: ...  MAP SETUP Take the following Map Tiles and arrange them as shown in the Scenario map layout: X × Starting (I) Map Tile ... additional constraints ...  9  THE STORY ... put your immersive story here ...  10  FA C T O R Y C A M PA I G N - F O R G E D I N F I R E  2. BEYOND THE HORIZON SCENARIO LENGTH  Y × Far (II–III) Map Tile  This Scenario plays out over ... Rounds.  Z × Near (IV–V) Map Tile  PLAYER SETUP  HEROES PLACEMENT  Faction: Factory  ... describe how your and enemy Heroes will be placed ...  Faction Hero: Henrietta Starting Resources: X Starting Income: A  ,Y ,B  ,Z  VICTORY CONDITIONS  ,C  ...  Starting Units: A Few  ...  DEFEAT CONDITIONS  A Pack  ...  ...  TIMED EVENTS Town Buildings:  2nd Round:  Dwelling...  ...  Bonus: Choose one of the following options:  ...  ...  AI HERO SETUP  ADDITIONAL RULES  Faction: ...  During this “... Faction ...” Campaign Scenario, the following rules apply:  Enemy Army: ...  ...  Enemy Deck: ... Enemy Spell Deck: ... Enemy Skills: ... Special: ...  MAP SETUP Take the following Map Tiles and arrange them as shown in the Scenario map layout: X × Starting (I) Map Tile ... additional constraints ...  11  THE STORY ... put your immersive story here ...  12  CREDITS  Author: Piotr Bruzda Expansion Design: Re4XN Graphics Editing: Piotr Bruzda, Fomx Playtesting & Balancing: TODO: To be completed Tabletop Simulator Addon: invoceusse Proofreading: TODO: To be completed Spellchecking: TODO: To be completed GitHub Engineering & Mission Book Layout (based on work from the Rulebook Rewrite project): Hermanni Karppela, Andrzej Wiącek, Alexey Sokolov, Vadász András, Rickard Nilsson, Joris de Kleer, Kate Katrankova Special Thanks: HotA Crew for their exceptional work in creating the Factory in the Horn of the Abyss expansion, which serves as the foundation for this adaptation. Everyone from Archon Studio for producing the game and answering our incessant queries about rules and other topics. Jon Van Caneghem and everyone involved with the development of the original video game. Everyone who has supported the project with suggestions, corrections, image resources, and words of encouragement either on Discord or BoardGameGeek. Artwork Borrowed from O cial Release was Made by: Tomasz Badalski, Yoann Boissonnet, Shen Fei, Viviane Tybusch Souza, Iana Vengerova, Bartosz Winkler  13  